  Here at MiroLabs Inc., we will need a strong security program to protect our system, devices, and network from cyberattacks. Every device connected to the network must have a robust security setup.  We will need a current gap analysis to compare MiroLabs current organization’s security to today’s best security practices to determine where there are vulnerabilities. This is a four-step process first, we will select an industry standard framework, then evaluate people and processes, gather data and technology, and finally analyze the data gathered. 

  We need to run a benchmark to capture information on the overall security and performance on the network and set that as our baseline, so we have a reference point. Keeping up with running benchmarks will help us monitor and determine if any security or performance problems exist. The performance of this benchmark will inform us of the technologies efficiency to fulfill its intended purpose. There will need to be a key performance indicator as well as key risk indicators so we can make informed decisions. I’d like to know how effective our cybersecurity approach and efforts have succeeded or declined. Having metrics on how many times we have been breached or attacked, and how long it takes our security team to implement a new patch. 

  The total cost of ownership value shall be calculated to ensure all financial cost, administrative, and overall costs associated with maintaining cyber security for the company. Also, with keeping in mind how much maintenance is required and the time it takes to update devices and installing new patches. There will need to be metrics on how many devices are in fact up to date, and how often anti viruses are scanning devices applications. We will need to be aware of the probability of a certain component that is most likely to fail. I plan to determine the amount of time between failures. The total cost of ownership value is compared to MiroLabs overall revenue. This amount needs to be calculated with possible losses that may happen to negligence or any cyberattacks. 

	Monitoring the networks process of data, we can measure the latency and have metrics on that to figure out if there is a hacker or bot trying to breach the network. The probability of our network being attacked over night or between patches will most likely be higher than when our whole team is live, online, and at the office. The scalability must be determined beforehand, so we can know the probability on how well the network’s security system will respond with a heavy workload. This will be incorporated into our benchmarks, and cyber security practices for maintaining MiroLabs networks. There will be two-factor authentication, and biometric techniques, such as retinal scans to enter the server rooms, or any room that must have high security. Only so many will be allowed administrative access to limit the chance of corrupting the networks cyber security implementation and practices. Keeping a metric on how many of us have administrative access will allow us to narrow down some security incidents.
